boot 	The boot command loads binary object files over Ethernet.

Format The format for this command is:

boot [-bensy] [ host:[ path]]

where:

-b suppresses deletion of all breakpoints before the download.

-e suppresses clearing of the exception handlers.

-n suppresses the loading of symbols from the file.

-s suppresses clearing of the symbol table before the download.

-y loads only the symbols from the file.

host is the internet host from which to read the file.

path is the file name to be loaded from the host.

Invoking the boot command with no parameters or arguments clears the
symbol table, deletes all current breakpoints, and attempts to load the program
found in the host and file specified by the bootaddr and bootfile
environment variables.

Functional
Description

The boot command uses the TFTP (Trivial File Transfer Protocol) to load an
executable binary file from a remote host over Ether net. It can read files in
ELF for mat (as used in Algorithmics’ SDE­MIPS, newer SGI compilers, and
systems compliant with the MIPS/ABI standard), and also the older MIPS
ECOFF for mat. PMON extracts any symbol table infor mation from these
files, and adds it to the target symbol table.

The boot command normally clears the symbol table, exception handlers,
and all breakpoints. The -s and -b options suppress the clearing of the sym-bol
table and breakpoints, respectively. The value of the EPC register is set
automatically to the entry point of the program. Therefore, to execute the
downloaded program, only the g command is required.

The boot command may return a large number of different error messages,
relating to network problems or file access permissions on the remote host.
For a file to be loaded via TFTP it must be publicly readable, and it may have
to be in a directory which is acceptable to the remote server. See page X??X for
more information about setting up and using TFTP.

When reading the symbol table PMON may complain that it does not have
enough room to store the program’s symbols. To increase the size of the
heap, use the set heaptop command to reserve more space and, if necessary, 
relink your program with a higher base address. The boot command
will also detect cases where the program being loaded would overwrite
PMON’s crucial data or heap: again relinking your program at a different
address will cure the problem.

Whilst it is loading each section of the file, boot displays the memory
address (in hex) and size (in decimal) of that section. Typically these sections
will be in the order .text, .dataand .bss.