The tr Command
tr

The tr command selects transparent mode.

Format

The format for this command is:

tr [-2] [port]

where:

	-2 	Selects 2-port mode.
	port	Selects a specific port

Functional Description

The tr command selects transparent mode. In transparent mode, the Monitor copies any characters typed on the
keyboard to the selected port and then copies characters arriving at
the selected port to the screen.  This command can be used for two
different functions.

  »   To allow the user run the Monitor on the same serial port that
      is used as a login line to your host. Do this by connnecting tty1
      to your host system, and tty0 to your terminal. Typing 'tr' on
      your terminal will connect you with your host.

  »       To allow the user to 'rlogin' to another board via a serial port
      or pseudo tty port. This mode is used on the ATMizer platform
      in order to 'talk' to the SAR board. For example,

	PMON tr tty2			connect to port tty2
	SAR r				display registers on SAR board
	^K				return to main board
	PMON r				display registers on main board

     tty2 is the name of the pseudo tty port (located in shared
     memory) that is used to communicate with the SAR board.

     Note that if you are using 2-port download mode. You will need
     to add the option '-2' to indicate that you need 2-port transparent
     mode. For example,

	PMON tr -2 tty2

     In this case the Monitor not only copies
     characters typed on the keyboard to tty2 and characters arriving
     on tty2 to the screen. It also copies characters arriving on tty1
     to tty3, and characters arriving on tty3 to tty1.  

The trabort Variable

The environment variable trabort selects the character that terminates
the transparent mode and returns the Monitor
to the default command mode.

The hostport Variable

The environment variable hostport determines the default port for the
tr command.

See Also
set
command for the setup of the environment variables.

««««««««««««««««««««««««««««««««««««««««»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»
Navigation: 
Document Home | 
Document Contents | 
Document Index 

